feat(reactnative): Add source maps upload guide with Debug IDs (#8436)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/react-native/sourcemaps/index.mdx

description: "Learn more about how to upload your source maps to Sentry."
---

<Note>

This guide assumes you are using a Sentry React Native SDK on version `5.11.0` or higher.

If you are on an older version and you want to upload source maps we recommend upgrading your SDK to the newest version.

</Note>

To get unminified stack traces for JavaScript code, source maps must be generated and uploaded. The React Native SDK handles source maps _automatically_ for iOS with Xcode and Android with Gradle, if you do not use custom values.

> ## Setup Automatic Upload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set Up Automatic Upload
```

> The easiest way to configure automatic uploading source maps is by using the Sentry Wizard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to configure automatic source maps upload is to use the Sentry Wizard:
```

```bash
npx @sentry/wizard@latest -i reactNative
```

The wizard will guide you through the following steps:

- Logging into Sentry and selecting a project
- Installing the necessary Sentry packages
- Configuring RN build tools to generate and upload source maps

> It supports JavaScript Core (including RAM Bundle) and Hermes. If you want to configure automatic source maps upload manually, follow the steps on [Manual Configuration](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/manual-setup) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It supports JavaScript Core (including RAM Bundle) and Hermes. If you want to configure automatic source maps upload manually, follow the steps on the [Manual Configuration](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/manual-setup) page.
```

> ### Disable the Automatic Upload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Disable Automatic Upload
```

If you want to disable the automatic upload of source maps, you can set the `SENTRY_DISABLE_AUTO_UPLOAD` environment variable:

```bash
export SENTRY_DISABLE_AUTO_UPLOAD=true
```

> Add use `shouldSentryAutoUpload` function in `android/app/build.gradle`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the `shouldSentryAutoUpload` function in `android/app/build.gradle`:
```

```gradle
apply from: "../../../sentry.gradle"

sentry {
    autoUploadProguardMapping = shouldSentryAutoUpload()
    uploadNativeSymbols = shouldSentryAutoUpload()
}
```

> ## Manual Upload Hermes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manual Upload With Hermes
```

> The manual upload of source maps consists of a few simple steps. First, you need to generate the source maps and bundle. Then combile the Hermes bytecode bundle. And finaly upload the source map to Sentry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manually upload source maps, first, you need to generate the source maps and bundle. Then compile the Hermes bytecode bundle, and finally upload the source map to Sentry.
```

Start with adding Sentry React Native Metro Plugin to your `metro.config.js`:

> ```js {filename="metro.config.js"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript {filename="metro.config.js"}
```

```

```bash {tabTitle:RN 0.68 and older}
# node_modules/hermes-engine/win64-bin/hermesc \
# node_modules/hermes-engine/linux64-bin/hermesc \
node_modules/hermes-engine/osx-bin/hermesc \
  -O -emit-binary \
  -output-source-map \
  -out=index.android.bundle.hbc \
  index.android.bundle
rm -f index.android.bundle
mv index.android.bundle.hbc index.android.bundle
```

Compose Hermes bytecode and (React Native Packager) Metro source maps:

```bash {tabTitle:Android}
mv index.android.bundle.map index.android.bundle.packager.map
node \
  node_modules/react-native/scripts/compose-source-maps.js \
  index.android.bundle.packager.map \
  index.android.bundle.hbc.map \
  -o index.android.bundle.map
node \
  node_modules/@sentry/react-native/scripts/copy-debugid.js \
  index.android.bundle.packager.map index.android.bundle.map
```

```bash {tabTitle:iOS}
mv main.jsbundle.map main.jsbundle.packager.map
node \
  node_modules/react-native/scripts/compose-source-maps.js \
  main.jsbundle.packager.map \
  main.jsbundle.hbc.map \
  -o main.jsbundle.map
node \
  node_modules/@sentry/react-native/scripts/copy-debugid.js \
  main.jsbundle.packager.map main.jsbundle.map
```

> Make sure `sentry-cli` is configured for your project. For that you can use environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure `sentry-cli` is configured for your project and set up your environment variables:
```

<OrgAuthTokenNote />

```bash {filename:.env}
SENTRY_ORG=___ORG_SLUG___
SENTRY_PROJECT=___PROJECT_SLUG___
SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN=___ORG_AUTH_TOKEN___
```

Upload the bundle and source map to Sentry:

```bash {tabTitle:Android}
node_modules/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli sourcemaps upload \
  --strip-prefix /path/to/project/root \
  index.android.bundle index.android.bundle.map
```

```bash {tabTitle:iOS}
node_modules/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli sourcemaps upload \
  --strip-prefix /path/to/project/root \
  main.jsbundle main.jsbundle.map
```

<Note>

> When uploaded, the `bundle` file will be sized at 0 bytes. This is expected with Hermes bytecode and won't affect the source maps resolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When uploaded, the `bundle` file will have a size of 0 bytes. This is expected with Hermes bytecode and won't affect the source maps resolution.
```

</Note>

> For more Hermes guides, see [Hermes Throubleshooting section](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/hermes/#throubleshooting).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more Hermes guides, see the [Hermes Throubleshooting](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/hermes/#throubleshooting) docs section.
```

> ## Manual Upload JavaScript Core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manual Upload With JavaScript Core
```

> The manual upload of source maps consists of a few simple steps. First, you need to generate the source maps and bundle. Then, you need to upload them to Sentry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manually upload source maps, first, you need to generate the source maps and bundle. Then compile the Hermes bytecode bundle, and finally upload the source map to Sentry.
```

> Start with adding Sentry React Native Metro Plugin to your `metro.config.js`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by adding Sentry React Native Metro Plugin to your `metro.config.js`:
```

> ```js {filename="metro.config.js"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript {filename="metro.config.js"}
```

const { getDefaultConfig, mergeConfig } = require("@react-native/metro-config");
const {
  createSentryMetroSerializer,
} = require("@sentry/react-native/dist/js/tools/sentryMetroSerializer");

const config = {
  serializer: {
    customSerializer: createSentryMetroSerializer(),
  },
};

const m = mergeConfig(getDefaultConfig(__dirname), config);
module.exports = m;
```

Generate the React Native Packager (Metro) bundle and source maps:

```bash {tabTitle:Android}
npx react-native bundle \
  --dev false \
  --minify true \
  --platform android \
  --entry-file index.js \
  --reset-cache \
  --bundle-output index.android.bundle \
  --sourcemap-output index.android.bundle.map
```

```bash {tabTitle:iOS}
npx react-native bundle \
  --dev false \
  --minify true \
  --platform ios \
  --entry-file index.js \
  --reset-cache \
  --bundle-output main.jsbundle \
  --sourcemap-output main.jsbundle.map
```

> Make sure `sentry-cli` is configured for your project. For that you can use environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure `sentry-cli` is configured for your project and set up your environment variables:
```

<OrgAuthTokenNote />

```bash {filename:.env}
SENTRY_ORG=___ORG_SLUG___
SENTRY_PROJECT=___PROJECT_SLUG___
SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN=___ORG_AUTH_TOKEN___
```

Upload the bundle and source map to Sentry:

```bash {tabTitle:Android}
node_modules/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli sourcemaps upload \
  --strip-prefix /path/to/project/root \
  index.android.bundle index.android.bundle.map
```

```bash {tabTitle:iOS}
node_modules/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli sourcemaps upload \
  --strip-prefix /path/to/project/root \
  main.jsbundle main.jsbundle.map
```

## Optional Release and Distribution

> For events sent from Sentry to correctly be attributed to a release **both the `release` and `dist` values will need to be set.** You can set these values in the call to `init`, as discussed in our [Releases & Health content](/platforms/react-native/configuration/releases/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To correctly attribute events sent to Sentry to a release, **both the `release` and `dist` values will need to be set.** You can set these values in the call to `init`, as discussed in our [Releases & Health](/platforms/react-native/configuration/releases/) documentation.
```

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___DSN___",
  release: "my-project-name@2.3.12",
  dist: "52",
});
```

> If you use custom values for your release other than the version included with the build in Xcode or Android Studio, the automatic source maps upload script will no longer work because it does not detect custom values. Use environment variables `SENTRY_RELEASE` and `SENTRY_DIST`. The script that performs the automatic source maps upload will use those values instead the default ones, and they will match the given `release` and `dist`. This ensures that the given custom `release` and `dist` values are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The automatic source maps upload script doesn't detect custom values for releases. This means that if you use a custom value for your release, other than the version included with the built-in Xcode or Android Studio, the automatic source maps upload script won't work. Instead, you can set the `SENTRY_RELEASE` and `SENTRY_DIST` environment variables, which the automatic source maps upload script will use. This will ensure that the given custom `release` and `dist` values are used.
```

```bash
export SENTRY_RELEASE="my-project-name@2.3.12"
export SENTRY_DIST="52"
```

> ## Legacy Source Maps for Release Upload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Legacy Instructions for Preparing Source Maps for a Release
```
